丁:A nail. The derivative 钉 is now used to represent this sense.
不:The character 不 originated as a pictograph of the calyx of a flower. It was then composed into a phono-semantic character with the pictograph for mouth (口), to form 否, representing “no” (negation).
丑:A hand.
且:Multiple interpretations. A sacrificial vessel used for chopping and holding meat as viewed from above, an erect penis, or a stone altar.
世:three leaves on a branch.
丙:Multiple interpretations. Either shoulders, the tail of a fish, pedestal, or small table.
中:The middle box is interpreted as a drum, with a flagpole being placed in the center.
串:Two boxes strung together by a stick.
主:A picture of a lamp or a torch with a flame at the top. Original form of 炷.
久:A man receiving moxibustion. The derivative 灸 refers to the original word.
乗:Climbing a tree 木, with the feet visible. Simplified to 禾 + 北.
乙:Unknown. Either a developing plant, the intestine of a fish, or the gill bone of a fish.
九:A stylized hand, with bent wrist/forearm. The original meaning of the glyph was “elbow”, which is now written 肘. Later, 九 was taken to symbolize a fist tightening to bump up against something. Thus, there is a metaphorical bumping up of nine against ten.
也:Uncertain. Either a female genitalia, or an ancient funnel or wash basin.
乳:A woman breastfeeding a child.
了:a baby wrapped in a blanket, with only the head visible. Compare with 子, where the arms are visible.
于:Two possibilities. An ancient wind instrument; early form of 竽, or Exhaled air; early form of 吁.
云:A stylized picture of clouds. The derivative 雲 refers to the original word.
互:A spool to wind up rope (like a modern garden hose spool). Original character for 䇘.
井:a square well, with supports on four sides.
亚:an overhead view of a construction, likely a 亚-shaped tomb. Originally written as 亞.
交:A human with crossed legs.
亥:An animal; similar origin to 豕.
㐬:A newborn baby, shown upside down. The upper portion is an inverted 子. The three lower lines represent amniotic fluid or hair.
人:Side view of a standing man.
以:A person (人) carrying something.
何:A man carrying something.
余:Thatched cottage; house. Original form of 舍.
来:wheat. Original character of 麥.
儿:A standing person. A radical form of 人.
元:A figure with two lines 二 for a head, emphasizing the head.
兆:The cracks in a shell during fortune-telling, an omen.
免:A man in a hat. Borrowed for abstract meanings. Originally written as 冕.
兔:A rabbit.
六:Perhaps a shed. Alternatively, it may be an ancient counting symbol.
其:Originally 𠀠, a basket. 丌 was added under the basket to represent a stand. It may also have acted as a phonetic component.
冊:Bamboo slips strung together.
冎:A skull. The old pictographic form of 骨.
几:A stool viewed from the side.
凡:A plate, a flat dish.
凵:A cave.
凶:The '凵' component representing a hole in the ground and with the '㐅' component indicating the existence of a hole and/or representing rock, mud, stone or bamboo in the hole.
凸:Representation of a convex object.
凹:Representation of a concave object.
出:止 (“foot”) + 凵 (“cave”) – to step out of a cave.
刀:A knife
力:Alternative interpretation, either an arm bending out from the side of the body, or a wooden plough.
勿:Blood on a knife; the original character of 刎. Phonetically borrowed for the negative particle since the time of the oracle bone script.
匚:A kind of container.
匹:Folds in cloth.
升:A dipper, compare 斗.
午:A pestle
南:A hanging percussion instrument, or the front of a house.
卜:A crack in an oracle bone, used for divination in ancient China.
印:A hand suppressing a kneeling person.
卵:Spawn, egg.
又:A right hand. Original form of 右.
受:爪 (“hand”) + 凡 (“plate”) + 又 (“hand”). Meaning to hand over.
口:Resembles an open mouth.
另:Ideogrammic compound (會意): 口 + 力.
只:Airflow coming out of a mouth (口) – a modal particle.
史:又 (“hand”) holding a fountain pen resembling 中.
呂:Two segments of a spine.
单:A net to catch animals. The two boxes at the top are weights, the middle section is the net, the bottom is the rope. Originally written as 單.
回:Rotation (originally a spiral).
囧:Resembling a window.
囪:Windows closed with a shutter, or something similar.
圂:A pig (豕) surrounded by an enclosure (囗).
圉:An enclosure (囗) with a hand-restricting instrument (㚔) — prison.
土:A lump of clay on a potter’s wheel.
𡈼:A human (亻) standing on soil (土).
圭:土 + 土 – stack of (clay, jade) tablets. Duplication of 土.
士:Axe-like tool; soldier.
壬:Possibly a carrying pole, a meaning that was later transferred to 任 (rèn).
壴:A drum 口 with two ends, a base and feathers 土 on top.
夂:The knot at the end of a cord.